I. Accessibility Services
Centre College is committed to fostering respect for the diversity of the College community and the individual rights of each member of that community. In this spirit, and in accordance with the provisions of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and expanded by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Centre College seeks to provide disabled students with support services and other reasonable accommodations needed to ensure equal access to the programs and activities of the College. While the College provides a number of services to support the academic work of all its students (including tutoring), this statement outlines a variety of additional services provided specifically to students with mobility, visual, hearing, or learning disabilities.

Support services for physical disabilities of students at Centre College are coordinated by the Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations and the Dean of /student Success. Individual students who have appropriate documentation of a disability are counseled to determine appropriate accommodations and identify resources and referral to the appropriate faculty member. All other disabilities are coordinated by the Assistant Dean.

All students are invited to register documentation of a physical or learning disability. Arrangements for services, equipment, modification of course material, classroom and housing assignments, and other reasonable accommodations require advance notice. Applicants indicating the need for special services must submit the Accessibility Request Form.  After submitting that request, students requesting housing accommodations will meet with the Associate director of Residence Life & Housing Operations to discuss their individual circumstances.  Students requesting academic accommodations will meet with the Dean of Student Success.  Returning students must submit requests by March 15 and new incoming students must submit requests by June 15.

Please refer to the Accessibility Services site for more information.


II. Damage
Each student is responsible for the care of the keys and room assigned, as well as the common areas (lounges, halls, bathrooms, furnishings, etc.) of the residence unit to which they are assigned. At the end of the academic year or immediately following early departure from the College, all campus residences will be rechecked for damage, and the cost of any repair and/or replacement will be assessed to the resident’s bill. It is the responsibility of the resident to respect facilities of the College. Incidental wear and damage resulting from normal use is a matter for the routine maintenance procedures of the Facilities Management department. The prevention and reporting of vandalism or wanton damage to residence halls (including fraternity/sorority houses), academic buildings, or any other campus facility is the expressed obligation of every individual in the Centre community. Activity or behavior associated with such damage could result in danger for members of our community and is unacceptable.  It is important for residents to report any damages immediately to a member of the Residence Life staff.  Failure to do so could result in fines assessed to the resident's bill.

In an effort to reduce damages in residential spaces, the college limits students to the use of poster putty on walls. Additionally, any adhesive hook or tape cannot be used, due to the excessive amount of damage they have caused in the past. This includes removable wallpaper. 

For damage incidents or excessive clean-up in residence units in which the individual(s) responsible cannot be identified, each resident of that unit must pay an equal share toward the cost of repair and/or cleaning. If repeated incidents of major damage in the same residence unit occur and if the individual(s) responsible cannot be identified, social privileges of the residence unit occupants may be revoked until such time that the residents demonstrate a commitment to appropriate behavior and can give reasonable assurance that no further damage will occur.

If the individual(s) responsible for damage can be identified, accountability will be assigned accordingly and will include restitution, a conduct meeting, and possible sanctions. If the individual(s) is/are involved in a subsequent incident resulting in damage, the individual(s) is/are subject to suspension from the College unless or until a commitment to responsible behavior can be demonstrated. It is ultimately the responsibility of the Student Judiciary and/or the Dean of Student Life to determine whether a student should be suspended or if some other sanction should be imposed.


III. Housing and Housing Assignments
The Residence Life & Housing Office is responsible for the management of campus residences. This office assigns housing to first-year and transfer students and determines opening and closing times for the residences.  Incoming first-year and transfer students will complete a housing application in the housing portal.  In the housing application, each person will share their preferences for key compatibility questions and how they wish for a roommate to present in those same areas.  If incoming students have identified an intended roommate, we do permit this to occur.  Centre requires that the match be a mutual selection, which means one individual creates a roommate group in the housing portal and the other individual must accept the group in order for the two to be paired together.  Additionally, Centre College does not permit incoming first-year students to live with returning students.  

For returning students, housing is assigned through an annual housing lottery, administered in the spring term.  The lottery is based on class year, with rising seniors selecting first, rising juniors second, and rising sophomores third.  Students assigned to a room are obligated to pay the room charge for all terms in which they are enrolled within a given academic year. An additional fee is applied for single rooms or for living in a double room without a roommate.  This includes any single room within a suite or apartment.

If at any point a vacancy occurs in a room and Residence Life & Housing deems is permittable, the student remaining will pay for the room at the single rate for the rest of the semester.  If it is not possible, the student will have one week to fill the space with another student of their preference.  If the space is not filled after one week, Residence Life & Housing will fill the space.

If at any point, a resident begins to have difficulty with one or more roommates, we encourage them to participate in a roommate mediation process with their RA or RD to discuss their concerns. Should roommates desire a room change, it is our policy that the roommate desiring the change moves.   If both roommates desire a change and cannot agree who will move, the Residence Life Housing Office will move all roommates involved in the conflict.


IV. Housing and Security Policy for Students with Housing Accommodations
Any student who has a medical condition that necessitates special housing consideration must provide detailed documentation, dated and signed by their physician, delineating reason(s) for the request for special consideration.

Centre College is committed to providing students with medical accommodations a safe environment in which to live and study. During safety drills and emergencies, alarms (and in some cases flashing lights) will alert students to potential and/or imminent danger. At the beginning of each term, the Department of Public Safety provides safety instructions in the event of an emergency for students with medical accommodations who reside in special housing such as campus apartments. Although these special housing units are not equipped with building fire alarms, each room is equipped with individual smoke detectors, as is the case in all campus residences.

It is the responsibility of the student to inform the Disability Services Office in the Academic Dean’s Office in advance if evacuation assistance will be needed in an emergency situation. The Department of Public Safety and the Residence Life & Housing Office staff will assist persons with disabilities who may require assistance evacuating a building during an emergency. These departments will keep a list of the students who may need assistance and their room assignments. This information will be shared with external rescue personnel if needed.

Limited on-campus residence hall accommodations are available for students requiring medical accommodations. Centre College will give priority for first floor housing to students who notify the College of their medical accommodations. The Residence Life & Housing Office, Student Health Center, and the Disability Services Office will respond to requests for appropriate and reasonable housing accommodations in a timely manner.

Any returning student who has a special need condition that necessitates special housing consideration must provide detailed documentation by filling out the special housing consideration form by March 1st, dated and signed by their health care provider, delineating reason(s) for the request of special consideration.

If for any reason, a student or the student’s family or advocate, believe that the College’s policy or student’s housing assignment does not reasonably accommodate the student’s disability or endangers the student’s safety or health, they may request reconsideration. This request must be written and filed with the Housing Office within 15 days after the assignment. If an appeal is necessary, the physician or health care provider can submit additional information for further review. A student may then appeal this decision within 15 days of notification and a medical accommodation review committee comprised of the health services and the housing committee will make the final determination for approvals. Once the committee has met, they shall notify the student in writing within 10 days of their decision.


V. Housing Contract
A copy of the housing contract is included here for general information. Each residential student is expected to sign a copy of this contract annually as an indication of understanding of and commitment to policies and regulations of on-campus housing.  This occurs when applying for Fall Term housing.

This contract is an agreement between Centre College and separately with each student signing below. It entitles the student to use their assigned accommodations only as set forth in this contract and in accordance with regulations published elsewhere in the Student Handbook under, among possibly other sections, Housing and Housing Assignments and under Student Life Standards and Policies.  These policies apply to all college housing, whether a standard double, suite, Greek housing, or campus owned houses and townhouses.

Each residence hall room includes an individual bed, mattress, chest, desk, chair, mirror, closet space, and mini-blinds. Students provide their own blankets, sheets, mattress pads, bedspreads, pillows, study lamps (excluding halogen lamps), etc.
At the time of initial occupancy, the student must complete a Room Condition Report.  The student should identify in that report and at that time any damages to the room or provided furnishings or any equipment not working correctly.  This Report will be used when the student moves out of the room to identify damages occurring during the time of occupancy by that student.  If a student fails to complete a Room Condition Report, they will be responsible for any damages in the room at checkout.
No alterations (for example, painting walls or installing carpet) are permitted to be made to the room or its contents without advance permission of the Director of Residence Life & Housing.  Students are responsible for reversing any alterations and returning the room to its original condition and appearance (e.g., returning College furniture to proper locations). Should the College find it necessary to restore the room to its original condition and appearance after occupancy has been terminated, the student will be assessed whatever charges accrue to that restoration.
No television mounted on the wall.
No flags, banners, signs, etc. may be hung from the ceiling or walls in any residence hall room.
Personally supplied beds or mattresses may not be used in residence hall rooms. Lofted beds may not be constructed for use in residence halls and homemade bed risers, such as, but not limited to, cinder blocks are not permitted. Store bought bed risers are allowed and must be commercially manufactured.
Electric appliances and other items such as, but not limited to, Instapots, airfryers, hotplates, George Foreman type grills, frying pans, waffle irons, toasters/toaster ovens, portable heaters, microwave ovens (over 1200 watts), refrigerators (over 6 cubic feet), self-installed ceiling fans, halogen lamps, candles, live Christmas trees, and air conditioners may not be used in any student hall room.  Students may store and use rice cookers, toasters, toaster ovens, and other small cooking appliances in the kitchens of residence halls.  Microwave ovens less than 1200 watts, refrigerators less than 6 cubic feet, and coffee makers may be used and kept in student's rooms.
No externally viewable signage/flags or signs of any form may be placed in college windows without prior approval of the Dean of Students.  This also includes porches, balconies, and front steps.
Window screens may not be removed from windows. Doing so would result in a safety violation and dealt with as such through student conduct.
Smoking is not allowed inside any residential facility belonging to or leased by the College.
All students living in Centre College residence halls are required to comply with the fire regulations as listed in the Campus Safety and Security and Risk Management sections of the Student Handbook.
No fireworks, firearms, or any other items, which could be considered weapons, may be kept in student rooms. See further explanation as stated in the Campus Safety and Security and Risk Management Policies sections of the Student Handbook.
Pets are not allowed in the residence halls or houses at Centre. Violation of this policy will result in a minimum fine of $50 per day and the immediate removal of the pet from campus.
New students may occupy their rooms no earlier than Sunday, August 24, 2025. Returning students may occupy their rooms beginning with check-in on Wednesday, August 27, 2025.  Times to be determined, but are not to interfere with any new student orientation events. The first contract meal for upper-class students will be dinner, Wednesday, August 27, 2025.  Any exceptions to these dates must be prearranged with the Residence Life & Housing Office.
The residence halls will be closed for winter break beginning Saturday, December 13, 2025 until Sunday, January 4, 2026. We realize that there are a few students who may be unable to leave during this break.  If they are unable to go home with a friend or make other arrangements, students must request to stay over the break by submitting a break housing request form in the housing portal by 5:00 pm on Monday December 1, 2025. There are no meals served during this break. The college reserves the right to move students remaining on campus during the December break to a centralized location for safety, financial, and maintenance reasons. Damage charges and fines are tripled during any College break, during finals, and for summer residents.
The residence halls/houses will close for the summer at 5:00 pm on May 20, 2026; however, students must leave campus 24 hours after their last final.  Graduating Seniors must leave campus by 5:00 pm Sunday, May 24, 2026.  Students are also expected to make other off-campus housing arrangements when the College is closed.
Students are expected to take every precaution that communal property is not abused. When damage does occur in or to communal property, and the responsible party cannot be identified, all occupants of that residence or hall will be assessed damages on a prorated basis.
Students are not to switch rooms without prior written authorization from the Residence Life & Housing Office.  Student must complete a room change request form in the housing portal to request a move.
A student whose roommate departs or does not return for whatever reason during any long term may be responsible for accepting the charge for a private room or establishing a new roommate relationship. This new relationship may be established directly by the student or with the assistance of the Residence Life & Housing Office. Failure to cooperate with the Residence Life & Housing Office as they reassign roommates or assign a new room will require assessment of a single occupancy charge to the student's bill.
The College reserves the right of access to student rooms at any time for the purpose of supervising conditions regarding damage, safety, health, and compliance with College and residence hall policies and regulations. Personnel with such authorization are Residence Directors, Resident Assistants, facilities management staff, public safety officers, and Student Life Office staff. Rooms may be entered and inspected, but personal belongings will not be inspected or searched without prior authorization from the Dean of Student Life or other designated College officials. The College reserves the right to restrict the use of any furniture deemed unsafe or inappropriate in any College owned residence or Greek house. This includes any furniture/structure intended to be used as or that could be construed to be a serving area for alcohol.
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of this contract may result in the immediate revocation of the Housing Contract, termination of residency and loss of any and all housing fees. The College will remedy the noncompliance and assess necessary charges to cover expenses incurred as a result of the violation.
All students who test positive for Latent TB must be treated or they will not be allowed to reside in Centre housing.
Upon termination of occupancy, the student is expected to complete the “check out” portion of the Room Condition report with an RA, unless they choose Express Checkout at the closing of school in May.
Each student must sign a copy of this contract to acknowledge agreement with and understanding of the terms, and, further, as an agreement to exercise appropriate care in the residence hall.


VI. I.D. Cards
Each student must have a Centre I.D. card that is issued through the Student Life Office. If your I.D. card is stolen, contact the Student Life Office between 8:30 am – 4:30 pm, Monday through Friday or the Department of Public Safety after hours. Replacement I.D. cards are made in the Student Life Office located on the second floor of the Campus Center, Monday-Friday, 8:30 am - 4:30 pm. There is a $25 charge for a replacement I.D. If a student misplaces their I.D. card, a temporary ID card may be issued for 7 days to allow the student time to locate their ID card before purchasing a new one.  A faded I.D. card can be replaced at any time, at no cost.   A Centre I.D. card is necessary for eating meals on campus, use at the library, etc. Students should be prepared at any time to present a Centre I.D. to officials of the College as form of identification. Students who withdraw from the College for any reason, including academic or disciplinary suspension, must turn in their student I.D. card to the Office of the Registrar within 48 hours of withdrawal.

Students obtain access to their residence hall using their student ID card.  Only individuals living in the residence hall will have access to any particular building.


VII. Keys and Locks
Each student is issued one room key upon arrival for the academic year. Loss of the key during the year or failure to return the key will result in the assessment of a $50 charge. Students who withdraw from the College for any reason, including academic or disciplinary suspension, must turn in their room key to the Resident Life & Housing Office within 48 hours of withdrawal.  A replacement key may be purchased for $50 by contacting the Residence Life & Housing Office located in Nevin.

To maintain a safe and secure residential environment for all residents, exterior doors in residence halls are locked 24 hours per day.  All residents are issued access to the residence hall they live in using their student ID card.  Residents are asked to carry their room key and ID at all times. Propping of doors for any reason increases the risk of harm to the community. Propped doors in any residential space will be charged a minimum of a $100 fine to the entire community, if a responsible party is not found.  Additionally, using any mechanism to prevent a residential door from locking properly, including but not limited to the taping or dismantling locks will result in a fine, as well.


VIII. Laundry Facilities
Laundry facilities operated by CSC Service Works are located in the basements of Bingham, Breckinridge, Caldwell, Cooper Ganfield, Evans, LaMotte Tyler, Nevin, Northside, Peal, Stevenson Vinson, and Yerkes; on the 1st floor of the Ruby Cheek House, on the 2nd and 3rd floors of Higgins and Wiseman Halls, in the Brockman Commons, and in the Combs Center Annex.  Residents of St. Mildreds Court have access to laundry in the basement of 122 St. Mildreds and Caldwell Hall.  Residents of 5th Street are given access to Pearl Hall. All machines are Speed Queen and are free for student use. Any maintenance problems in these areas should be reported to a member of the Residence Life & Housing staff.


IX. Lockout Procedures
If a student is locked out of their room, they may call the appropriate phone number, depending on the time they are locked out.  Students will need to show ID to verify that they live in the space that they are requesting access.  

Monday-Friday, 8:00 AM until 5:00 PM: 			DPS (859-236-4357)
Sunday-Saturday, 5:00 PM until 12:00 AM: 		RD on Call (859-238-5590)
Sunday-Saturday, 12:00AM until 8:00 AM: 		DPS (859-236-4357)
Saturday and Sunday, 8:00 AM until 5:00 PM: 	RD on Call (859-238-5590)


X. Pets
Pets are not allowed in the residence halls, houses, or any other Centre meeting space.  Service animals and approved Emotional Support Animals (ESAs) are permitted in the residence halls. Pets not allowed include cats, dogs, hamsters, snakes, birds, iguanas, lizards, rabbits, etc. Centre accepts no responsibility for but will allow one 20 gallon or smaller aquarium containing fish per room. Any damage incurred to the residence hall room or unit (i.e., the tank breaks) is the responsibility of the owner. Students found in violation of this policy will be fined a minimum of $100.00 per day the animal is present and given 24 hours to remove the animal themselves.  After 24 hours, the pet will be removed immediately from campus by a member of the Student Life staff.  Additionally, someone found with an unapproved animal forfeits the right to request an ESA in the same academic year.


XI. Quiet Hours
Students are expected to be considerate and responsible residents. They enjoy the freedom to make their own decisions provided they do not violate others’ rights or undermine the well-being of the community. This means that one should be careful of unreasonable noise, observe quiet hours, attend hall meetings, etc. Special consideration to fellow students should be observed during final exam periods when 24-hour quiet hours are in effect.  Students, along with the RAs and RDs, are responsible for determining and implementing guidelines promoting hall environments conducive to study and to good relationships on the floor. The Residence Life & Housing Office has the authority to exclude from campus residences for a specified time period any individual whose behavior or citizenship disturbs the good order of the residence. The College also reserves the right to change a student from one room to another if housing requirements make it necessary.

With the exception to approved College-sponsored events, quiet hours for all residences, student rooms, and corridors (including fraternity and sorority houses) are:

Sunday-Thursday	10:00 pm	-	10:00 am
Friday-Saturday	11:00 pm	-	10:00 am
Our lives together at Centre have several components, among which are academic, social, and personal activities. It is important to recognize that the primary mission of the College is an academic one. Because of that, respect for the peace and quiet of residence hall corridors and rooms is an important quality of our community success. Social activities which may occur either spontaneously or as a result of previous plans and which occur during quiet hours must not be conducted in such a way as to disturb the peace and quiet of residence hall corridors and rooms. During the minimum quiet or consideration hours, a resident who feels that nearby social activity is creating a disturbance may, after making an effort to quiet the disturbance themselves, request assistance from an RA or DPS. On Friday and Saturday nights, social activities in and around campus must not become so loud as to create a disturbance for people not involved in the activity and not located in the immediate vicinity of the activity.

Additionally, Courtesy Hours are in effect 24 hours a day.  This means that any student has the right to ask you to lower your noise level at any point in any of our residential facilities.  Failure to abide by Quiet Hours or 24 hours Courtesy Hours could result in disciplinary sanctions.


XII. Residence Life Staff
Residence Life Staff

Director of Residence Life & Housing: Jess Sweitzer

Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations: Julie Wheeler

Assistant Director of Residence Life & Housing:  Michael Embry

 

Residence Life & Housing professional staff members can be reached via email (reslife@centre.edu) or phone (859-238-6035).  Office hours are 9:00 AM until 5:00 PM Monday through Friday, excluding holidays that the college is closed.  For after hours emergency support, the residence director on call can be reached at 859-238-5590, who can connect you to a professional staff person on call.

 

Residence Directors (RDs)

Leif Becker, Jade Pevley, Onix Rios, Kennedy Ushiroda, and Madie Vandeventer.


XIII. Residency
Students are required to reside in college residences and to take their meals in campus dining facilities. Exceptions to this requirement are: (1) students who live at home with parents/guardians within a 30-mile radius of Danville; (2) students enrolled in less than 12 credit hours; (4) students aged 23 years old and above on the first day of fall term; (3) married students; (5) students with one or more dependents.

All students will be required to have a meal plan whether living on or off-campus.

All students requesting a residency exemption are required to complete an application. The deadline to apply for residency exemption is March 15 for the upcoming academic year.  Exemptions from the residency requirement are granted on an annual basis and do not automatically renew from year to year. It is the student’s responsibility to check with the Financial Aid office to learn what impact living off-campus will have on their aid award. Federal College Work Study and Perkins Loans are not awarded to off-campus students. Do not sign a lease. You will be responsible for the room charge and your off-campus rent if you sign a lease without permission to live off-campus. Students who will be granted permission to live off-campus are notified on or by March 30.


XIV. Roofs of Buildings
All roof and roof-like structures are strictly off-limits. This includes residence halls and Greek houses entry porch roofs, the Jones Visual Arts Center (JVAC), the pool, etc. Because of concerns for safety, damage to roof structures, and general liability, students must not go out on these roofs for any reason. There will be a potential $500 fine plus additional sanctions for anyone getting on any roof for any reason.


XV. Service and Emotional Support Animals
It’s important to us that students receive the all the support they need to thrive while living on campus.

Service Animals

A service animal means any dog* that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. Students requesting to have a service animal live with them in campus housing should make a special housing request as soon as possible, but not later than thirty (30) days prior to the desired move-in date, by contacting the Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations. 

*Under Title II and III of the ADA, service animals are limited to dogs. However, entities must make reasonable modifications in policies to allow individuals with disabilities to use miniature horses if they have been individually trained to do work or perform tasks for individuals with disabilities.

Service Animal Rights and Responsibilities

Requirements, Rights, and Responsibilities Related to Service Animals

A service animal will be the full responsibility of its handler and shall be always under the control of its handler, whether by harness, leash, voice control, signals, or other effective means;
The handler of a service animal is solely responsible for appropriate care of the animal and for complying with state and local requirements regarding vaccinations (the service animal must wear a valid vaccination tag), as well as state and local requirements regarding licensure and leash control;
The service animal’s handler is responsible for prompt and thorough clean up and disposal of animal waste in a closed container and appropriate trash bin;
A service animal handler is solely responsible for the care and supervision of the service dog. The handler needs to be sure that the animal is kept clean and that the service animal is regularly bathed, groomed and treated for fleas and ticks;
The handler of a service animal will be solely responsible for any damage to the property of the College or other individuals caused by the service animal;
Centre College may require a service animal to be removed from campus for any of the following:
(a) the animal is out of control and the animal’s handler does not take effective action to control it;
(b) the animal’s handler is mistreating or neglecting the animal;
(c) or the animal is not housebroken
Further, consistent with federal and state law, a service animal may be excluded from a campus facility or program if its presence poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others, fundamentally alters the nature of a program or activity, or would result in substantial damage to property. Decisions to remove a service animal from campus will be made on a case-by-case basis.

Note: Centre College may prohibit the use of service animals in certain locations (“restricted areas”) due to health or safety restrictions (such as food preparation areas), where service animals may be in danger, or where their use may compromise the integrity of research (such as chemistry labs). Exceptions to restricted areas may be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Public Safety and/or program chair responsible for the restricted area, as most appropriate.

Emotional Support Animals

An emotional support animal (ESA) is an animal that provides emotional support which alleviates one or more identified symptoms of a resident’s documented disability. An ESA may be considered for access to university housing; however, they are not permitted in other areas of the College. An ESA is not specifically trained and therefore is not considered a Service Animal. Students requesting to have an ESA live with them in campus housing should make a special housing request as soon as possible, but not later than thirty (30) days prior to the desired move-in date, by contacting the Associate Director of Residence.

Emotional Support Animal Policy

Determination of Emotional Support Animal Status

A student requesting an ESA as an accommodation for a disability...

Contacts the Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations to discuss request for an ESA accommodation and to discuss the full policy as it applies to the request;

Provides complete documentation of the disability, which includes a statement from the student explaining the need for an assistance animal, a completed Diagnosing Clinician Form for Request for Emotional Support Animal (ESA) and proof of current vaccinations for the animal;

Provides an emergency contact of someone who will come and take the animal should the student be incapacitated, hospitalized, or otherwise become unable to care for the animal;

Provides information about the type of animal that will be kept in residence, as well as plans for care and maintenance of the animal.

Accommodation requests should be made to the Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations as soon as possible upon enrollment to Centre or prior to completion of housing assignments. It is not guaranteed that Centre will be able to meet the individual’s accommodation needs during the current term of occupancy. A student dissatisfied with the College's determination that the Emotional Support Animal cannot be accommodated in campus housing may make a written request for reconsideration to the Dean of Students. 

Emotional Support Animal Rights and Responsibilities

An approved ESA will be the full responsibility of its owner and shall be under the control of its owner at all times, whether inside the owner's personal residence or outside. The animal must be under the control of the owner whenever the animal is outside the owner's personal residence, and that may be accomplished by leash, tether, or appropriate restraint. Also, when the animal is in the residence space of the owner without the owner being present, the animal must be restrained in a cage or crate, so that anyone else entering the room (such as facilities or other type of emergency inspection or service visit) is not required to engage with the animal;
The owner is solely responsible for appropriate care of the animal and for complying with state and local requirements regarding vaccinations, licensure and leash control.
The ESA will remain in the Owner's assigned personal residence on campus and is not permitted in other students' rooms, the common areas of the residential facilities (shared bathrooms, living rooms, hallways, kitchens) or other areas of the College such as classroom, academic buildings, administrative buildings, library, dining hall, fitness centers, pool, and anywhere else outside the owner's personal residential space. 
Proof of the following must be provided to the Associate Director of Residence Life & Housing Operations for canines and felines: 
Dogs:
     a. Proof of up-to-date rabies and distemper vaccinations;
     b. proof of sterilization (spaying or neutering);
     c. dogs must be over four months old and must have a KY license and wear it on a collar;
     e. dogs must be regularly bathed, groomed, and treated for fleas and ticks. 
   
    Cats:
     a. Proof of up-to-date rabies and distemper vaccinations;
     b. proof of sterilization (spaying or neutering);
     c. cats must be regularly treated for fleas and ticks. 

5.	The owner is responsible for prompt and thorough clean up and disposal of animal waste in a closed container and appropriate outdoor trash bin. Dogs must be housetrained;

6.	The student must provide an emergency contact of someone who will come and take the animal should the student be incapacitated, hospitalized or otherwise become unable to care for the animal;

7.	Residents requiring an ESA will be placed in campus housing that is designated appropriate for an ESA;

8.	If an ESA is approved for a residential space on campus, the Residence Life Staff will endeavor to notify the other residents on the floor or in the residence area where the ESA will be located, as both a courtesy to the other students and to alert them to potential health and safety concerns.

9.	The owner is solely responsible for any damage caused by the approved ESA.

10.	Centre College may require that the ESA be removed from campus for any of the following: 

    a. The owner of the animal is in violation of ESA policy.
    b. The animal is a threat to other College residents or is out of control and the animal's owner does not take effective action to control it. 
    c. The animal's owner is mistreating or neglecting the animal.
    e. The animal's presence violates residents' rights to peace and quiet.
     f. The animal is not housetrained.  

Further, consistent with federal and state law, an ESA may be excluded from a campus facility or program if its presence poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others, fundamentally alters the nature of a program or activity, or would result in substantial damage to property.  Decision to remove an Emotional Support Animal from campus will be made on a case-by-case basis.


XVI. Storage
Storage will be reserved for long distance out-of-state students (defined as living 300+ miles from campus) and international students only.  All in-state residents must find alternative storage due to limited space.  Storage will be provided on a first-come, first-serve basis.  All of the residence hall storage areas are to be used for sealed and labeled plastic bins only (no rugs, bookshelves, food,  carpets, furniture, etc.). Storage rooms are opened by contacting Public Safety. Items not complying with these regulations will be discarded during the summer or during periodic school year inspections. The College will not be responsible for any damaged or stolen items stored in these rooms. Each student leaving items for the summer will be required to list the items being stored and sign a storage contract. All bicycles must be stored in the bicycle sheds during the year and will be disposed of as abandoned property if left at the end of the academic year. For further information, contact the Residence Life & Housing Office or the Department of Public Safety. Students are encouraged to rent a storage unit with a local rental company for the summer.