Visitation is defined as social visiting by an individual in student rooms by invitation of the resident(s). All residents must assume responsibility for the general observation of the visitation guidelines.  The purpose of the visitation policy is to protect the privacy and rights of room and hall mates and to foster a positive and respectful residential community.  Repeated violations may result in a withdrawal of the visitation privilege or more serious consequences.

For the first three weeks of the Fall Term, first-year students are granted visitation privileges during the hours listed below:
Sunday-Thursday	10:00am - 12:30 am
Friday-Saturday	10:00am - 2:00 am
Persons cited for violating any of the visitation regulations during the first three weeks of the Fall Term are automatically fined a minimum of $25.
Upon approval by the Residence Life staff, first-year students are granted 24-hour visitation privileges in their residence hall rooms after the first three weeks of the Fall Term.  Based on the academic calendar, 24-hour visitation privileges will begin Saturday, September 21, 2024 at 5:00 pm.
All returning students shall have 24-hour visitation privileges in their residence hall rooms.  As the SGA resolution regarding the 24-hour visitation policy states, it "does not include cohabitation," and is "with the purpose of fostering a more mature and adult College environment."  The Student Life Office reserves the right to rescind this privilege if abused - either by hall or campus wide.
No person may enter another individual's room except in their company or by invitation of the resident(s).  Either roommate may deny the privilege of visitation in their room to any person.
Visitors of a different gender may not use the restroom facilities on single gender halls at any time.  Breckinridge, Yerkes, Bingham, Brockman, and Pearl and other north campus residences have public restroom facilities on the ground level and Nevin has facilities on the lower level.  Coed halls have men's and women's restroom facilities.  The following is a list of locations of gender-neutral restrooms:  Acheson/Caldwell 1st Floor, Cheek/Evans 1st Floor, Yerkes 1st Floor, Bingham 1st Floor, Breckinridge 1st Floor, Nevin Basement, Nevin 1st Floor, Northside Hall, Pearl 1st Floor, and Brockman Community Building.
All persons who participate in visitation must be either Centre students, family members of Centre students, or visitors of at least 18 years of age.  Visitors under 18 years of age must be approved with permission from the Student Life Office or the Admissions Office.  Please email the Director of Residence Life to approve underage visitors.
All public lounges and living rooms in residence halls and apartments and living rooms and basements of the Greek houses have 24-hour visitation privileges.  Such privileges can be rescinded by a majority vote of the residents or by the Residence Life Office due to abuse of the privileges or behavioral problems.
As mentioned under the section of this Handbook on Campus Safety/Security, students are responsible for their guests and the actions of their guests at all times. It is the responsibility of the Centre host to inform their non-Centre visitors of pertinent College rules and regulations. Specifically, any overnight guests are limited to a three consecutive night stay. Residents of a double occupancy room are limited to two overnight guests at any one time.  This policy is intended to protect the rights of roommates, as well as to promote a conducive living/learning environment within the residence halls. The College cannot be responsible for the safety and welfare of individuals staying as guests of our students in residence halls or houses unless such guests have been registered in advance in out housing portal, eRezlife, found at centre.erezlife.com.  Student must complete the guest registration form in eRezlife prior to a guest's arrival.
Residence Directors and Resident Assistants, Facilities Management staff, and other officials of the College have the right of access to any room at any time for the purpose of supervising conditions regarding damage, safety, health, and compliance with College and residence hall regulations.