I. Advertising in the Campus Center
Digital Signage System (D-Flyers)

The D-Flyers play on the two (2) screens at the north and south entrances to the Campus Center. Any club, office, organization, or group recognized by the College may submit D-Flyers to advertise specific events and happenings on campus.

Formatting D-Flyers

Canva is the recommended software, but the slide can easily be created in Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, and other programs.  The final file types must be submitted in one of the following image types:  .JPG, .TIF, .PNG, & .BMP, or MP4 for video ads.
Please use landscape or horizontal slide orientation.  This orientation looks the best on the screen.
There may be no references to drugs or alcohol.
Properly Setting Up the Format in Applications

Canva

Select "presentation" format on your file.
Create your document.
Save as a .PNG, .JPED, or MP4 for video files.
Microsoft Publisher

Create a new document at a custom size of 18.5’’ long by 11’’ high.
Create the slide. Be sure to keep text away from the edges.
Save and submit the document as a .jpg file.
Adobe Photoshop

Create a new document at 1280 by 768 pixels at 150 DPI.
Do not select a color bit rate over 8.
Create the slide.
Save and submit the slide as a .jpg file.
Submission Guidelines

Please submit the flyers to digital form no later than five (5) days prior to when you want the slides to run.  No signage will run with less than 5 days lead time.
Follow the instructions on the form.
The Student Life Office reserves the right to exclude any submission or change it for content or visual appeal.
If you have questions or suggestions for the Digital Signage in the Campus Center, please contact the Student Life Office.
Flyers

There are bulletin boards located in the Parent’s Association Game Room and in the north and south vestibules on the first floor.

Do NOT place flyers or anything else anywhere other than these bulletin boards. Postings placed on glass, doors, furniture, walls, etc. will be promptly removed.

Banners/Signs

Supplies for making signs and banners are in the Banner Making Space located outside the Intercultural Suite and are available to the entire Centre community. There are rolls of different colored paper, a variety of paints, die cuts, markers, fabric markers, construction paper, scissors, crayons, colored pencils, and more. Supplies are not to be removed from the Campus Center. If supplies are running low or empty, please notify the Information Desk or the Student Life Office.
To reserve banner space in the Campus Center visit http://eventcentre.bookedscheduler.com or through the EventCentre link on the homepage of CentreNet.
Banner spaces may not be reserved more than seven (7) days prior to intended start of banner display.
There are 14 banner spaces available in Cowan Dining Commons on a first come, first served basis.
The standard size for banners is 66”x96” (the size of a standard flat twin sheet). Banners may be smaller, but not larger than this standard size. Banners should be hung in vertical orientation not to exceed 66”.
Include name of event, sponsoring group, date, time, and location, and other pertinent information.
Do not hang banners more than seven (7) days before an upcoming event.
Do not hang a banner that blocks the vents on the north wall of Cowan Dining Commons, signs or banners that cover the vents will be removed.
Hang banners from the 2nd floor railing over into Cowan Dining Commons only.
You may hang banners with painters tape, velcro ties, string, and ribbon.  Painters tape is available in the Student Life Office.
You may NOT hang banners using duct tape, packaging tape, wire, zip ties, or anything that may damage the railings. Any signs that are secured by any of these methods will be removed.
Do not move or remove another sign to make room for your sign. If a group removes or moves another group’s sign, they may lose the privilege of posting signs/banners in Cowan Dining Commons.
Do not hang a banner without reserving a space.  Any banners without a reservation will be removed and placed in the Student Life Office.  Repeated violations of this rule may result in losing the privilege of posting signs/banners in Cowan Dining Commons.
Remove your own sign when your event is over.
Table Displays

The napkin holders on the tables located in Cowan may be used by students, campus organizations, and campus offices. To reserve the use of these units visit https://eventcentre.bookedscheduler.com/Web/schedule.php.
One side may be reserved for seven (7) days.


II. Campus Center
Hours of Operation

Monday-Friday	8:00 a.m. – 12:00 a.m.
Saturday-Sunday	9:00 a.m. – 12:00 a.m.
The common areas of the building are accessible to students 24 hours a day by card swipe access.

An ATM is located in the north vestibule for cash withdrawals.

Banquet and Food Service Information

For information involving food service and catering, please contact the Catering Manager for Parkhurst Dining.

Fees

The Student Life Office reserves the right to charge an individual, group, or organization for damage incurred to the space or for excessive cleaning. Additionally, reservation privileges for the responsible parties may be revoked.

Game Room Policies

Please be mindful of others.  If other people are waiting to use something, please limit your play time to thirty (30 minutes.
To play pool, students must check out the balls from the Information Desk and leave their Student ID or another form of photo ID and fill out the Google Form.  Pool sticks are located in the Game Room and may not be removed for any reason. Students are responsible for returning the full set of pool balls to the Information Desk, otherwise you will be charged to replace them.
Students must check out ping pong paddles and balls from the Information Desk. They must leave their student ID at the desk and complete the Google Form.  They will get their ID back upon the return of the equipment. If any of the equipment is lost or damaged, students will be charged to replace it.
General Policies

Centre College is a Tobacco-Free campus.  See the Tobacco Free Policy in the Residence Life section.
he Campus Center is an alcohol-free building. Any violators will be cited accordingly.
If you wish to use candles within the Campus Center, you must obtain special permission from the Student Life Office and the Department of Public Safety.
Internet

Wireless internet access is available throughout the Campus Center for any student, faculty, or staff whose computer is registered with ITS.  Guests can register their device by connecting to the Centre Public Wifi network.

Lounge Areas

Televisions: Roku Remotes are available for check out at the Information Desk for the four (4) televisions on the first floor of the Campus Center and the two (2) televisions in the Game Room. Students must leave their Centre ID or another photo ID to check one out. Televisions should be turned off when they are not being used.
Fireplaces: The fireplaces are turned on each day when weather appropriate. Please inquire at the Information Desk to have the fireplaces turned on or off.
Shades: If the sun gets too bright, the shades along the west wall of the Campus Center can be closed via controls at the Information Desk upon request.
Please be mindful of others. If other people are waiting to use something, please limit your play time to thirty (30) minutes.

Parking

Directly behind the Campus Center, off of College Street, there is one reserved parking space, three handicapped parking spaces, and four one-hour parking spots. There are four 2-hour parking spots on College Street. Additional parking is also available behind the Norton Center for the Arts off of West Walnut Street.

Recycling

Recycling is located near the Everyday Café, the north exit of Cowan, and in various locations on the second floor.

Parkhurst recycles any packaging materials and other trash if possible.

Reservations

To reserve meeting space in the Campus Center or view space availability, visit the online reservation systems at http://eventcentre.bookedscheduler.com, also located on the homepage of CentreNet.

Reservation Regulations

Any Centre College registered group or organization may reserve space in the Campus Center for meetings, events, etc.
Parties outside the Centre College community may rent the space upon approval by the College. For those interested in renting space in the Campus Center, please contact Human Resources.
The Campus Center serves the needs of the campus community outside the classroom.  Therefore, reservations for academic purposes (class meetings, study space, research, etc.) are generally prohibited and will be rejected from EventCentre without prior approval from the Campus Activities team.
For urgent reservation requests, those needed within five (5) calendar days, please contact the Campus Activities team.
If a room you have reserved is locked, please contact the Information Desk or the Department of Public Safety.
If you have any questions or concerns, please consult the Information Desk, located on the first floor of the Campus Center.
Set-up and Technology Requirements

To make specific requests for set-up, please provide that information on the EventCentre reservation system within 14 days of your reservation.  Please select the room that is best equipped for your needs. Some accommodations can be arranged upon special request. Do not assume that everything you need will be in the space you reserve (i.e. computers, USB-C converters, HDMI cables, adaptors, DVD player, etc.)


III. Combs Center
A renovated hemp warehouse, the Combs Activities Center, commonly called the Warehouse, opened full-time in 1995 to serve the Centre community by providing recreation, meeting space, and event space.  It now houses the premier scholarship offices on the 2nd floor and the Strategic Marketing and Communications office is on the 3rd floor.


IV. Greek-Letter Organizations
The fraternities and sororities at Centre offer individual students the opportunity to learn the importance of community, participation in campus life, and service. Greek-letter organizations offer students social and personal growth experiences, while helping them to develop interpersonal and leadership skills.

The time during which an individual has the opportunity to learn more about Greek-letter organizations is recruitment. Formal recruitment is the first week in February for both fraternities and sororities. Recruitment registration is held at the end of Fall Term and through CentreTerm.

There are 6 inter/national fraternities and 5 inter/national sororities on Centre’s campus. They are:

Chapter	President
Alpha Delta Pi	Maya Luong
Delta Delta Delta	Dolce Dillard
Kappa Alpha Theta	Taylor Webb

Kappa Delta	Kate Helton
Kappa Kappa Gamma	Kira Pusateri
Beta Theta Pi	Nate Hall
Delta Kappa Epsilon	Evan Hutchinson
Phi Delta Theta	Lex Breeden
Phi Kappa Tau	Gavin Alfon
Sigma Alpha Epsilon	Jonah Porter
Sigma Chi	Conner Maggard


V. Greek-Letter Organization Leadership and Governance
There are two governing councils that oversee the activities of the fraternities and sororities. These two governing bodies are the Panhellenic Council for sororities and the Interfraternity Council for fraternities.

Panhellenic Council

The Panhellenic Council’s objective is to develop and maintain fraternity life and interfraternity relations at a high level of accomplishment and in doing so, consider the goals and ideals of member groups as continually applicable to campus and personal life; promote superior scholarship as basic to intellectual achievement; and cooperate with member fraternities and the college administration in concern for and maintenance of high social and moral standards.

The Panhellenic Council has an internal judiciary board that handles complaints, grievances and/or violations of College and Panhellenic policy. All such items should be brought to the attention of the Panhellenic Executive Vice President.

Panhellenic Officers for 2025-2026 are: Jane Daniel, President; Emma Daman, Executive Vice President; Lucy Triebsch, Vice President of Recruitment; Chloe Hein, Vice President for Chapter Relations; Kaelyn Douglas, Vice President of Enrichment; Lydia Handy, Vice President of Administration; and Madison Morris, Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion; and Taylor Webb, Vice President of Marketing and Public Relations.

Interfraternity Council

The purpose of the Interfraternity Council (IFC) is to create, maintain, and perpetuate better relations among men’s inter/national recognized fraternities on campus; to inform, educate, and promote the Greek community to both those who are familiar and unfamiliar with it; and to encourage responsible participation in all areas of educational experiences including scholastic, social, intramural, and social service activities.

The Interfraternity Judicial Council (IFJC) is used to handle all fraternity violations of IFC and Greek Social policy. Any complaints, grievances, and/or violations must be brought to the attention of the Interfraternity Council Vice President of Risk Management and Chief Justice. In certain instances, it may be necessary for the College to take immediate disciplinary action. This may be necessary when, in the opinion of the college, the operations of the organization(s) involved may constitute a threat or disruption of the normal academic process of the college. Upon investigation of charges by the College, the case may then be referred back to the IFJC or handled through the college judicial system.

IFC Officers for 2025-2026 are: Preston Eger, President; Oliver Guignon, Executive Vice President; Ethan Wills, Vice President of Risk Management; Caleb Maul, Vice President of Recruitment; Jonah Jackson, Vice President of Administration, Lex Breeden, Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion, and Evan Avret, Vice President of Marketing.

Order of Omega

Order of Omega is a leadership honor society for members of Greek organizations. Order of Omega recognizes juniors and seniors who have exemplified high standards in the areas of scholarship, leadership, involvement within their respective organization and within the Greek, campus, and local community. Members must have obtained a cumulative grade point average above the all-Greek grade point average and only the top 3% of Greeks may be tapped for membership. The Director of Greek Life and the Student Life Coordinator serve as co-advisors.

Gamma Sigma Alpha

Gamma Sigma Alpha is an academic honors society that seeks to recognize those members of the Centre College fraternity and sorority community who have excelled scholastically. For membership in this organization students must be a junior or senior, be in good standing with his or her chapter, and must have either a 3.5 or higher cumulative grade point average or have achieved a 3.5 out of 4.0 grade point average during a semester of their junior or senior year. The Director of Campus Activities &Greek Life and the Assistant Director of Campus Activities for Greek Life serve as co-advisors.


VI. Student Activities Council
The Student Activities Council (SAC) is Centre’s programming organization. Campus-wide dances, weekend movies, comedians, and game shows are just a few of the many activities sponsored by SAC. A notable highlight includes the Centre tradition of Carnival. The Campus Center provides additional social programming space for SAC and other campus student groups. Membership in the Student Activities Council is open to all students.

SAC officers for 2025-2026 are: Olivia Overmohle, President; Cali Waldridge (Fall) and Jacob Moossy (Spring), Vice President for Administration and Finance; Chloe Fussenegger, Public Relations Director; Margaux Heid (Fall) and Adhya Muralidharan (Spring), Big Events and Partnerships Chair; Laura Linkous, Film and Performances Chair; Taylor Price, Novelties and Spirit Boosters Chair. The Assistant Director of Student Activities serves as advisor to this organization.


Student Activities and Organizations
Centre emphasizes student independence, initiative, responsibility, and leadership in the development and enhancement of student co-curricular activities and student organizations. However, the Student Life Office seeks to provide support, encouragement, and advice as needed and desired by the students. The Director of Campus Activities and Greek Life works with groups and their advisors to develop leadership and organizational strength and to help co-curricular life contribute to the enhanced development of students and the educational mission of the institution. Contact the Director of Campus Activities and Greek Life for a current listing of all student organizations. This list is also available on Centre’s website.

Students are encouraged to organize and join groups that promote their common interests. A group shall become an official organization when registered by the institution through the Student Life Office and Student Government Association. The College believes in the co-curricular experience and its potential contribution to building community. Centre delegates authority and responsibility for student organization activity along the following line: Board of Trustees, President, Vice President of Student Life, and Dean of Students or designee, and heads of student organizations.

Registered student organizations must have purposes and objectives which are compatible with the mission of Centre College, though institutional registration does not indicate endorsement by the College of the aims, objectives, or policies of that organization. A student group must be an officially registered student organization in order to use the Centre College name, to be listed in official publications, to advertise on campus, and to be recognized by the Student Government Association and be eligible to receive funds allocated from the student activities fee.

Registration Process

Student groups that desire to be officially registered at Centre College must submit an Application for Student Organization Registration to the Student Life Office. At a minimum, organizations will be asked to provide:

the name and signature of an advisor, who is a current faculty or staff member of Centre College,
a list of current officers and members,
a statement of purpose and/or constitution.
All constitutional documents of student organizations, such as charters, constitution By-Laws, regulations, policies, etc., are subject to administrative review and to approval by the Student Life Office.

Student organizations at Centre College must operate in compliance with college policy and local, State, and Federal law. Organizations must also operate in compliance with their own approved constitution and/or By-Laws. The Student Life Office and/or SGA reserves the right to deny registration or to withdraw registration from any organization whose purpose or activities are deemed inconsistent with the mission, values, or policies of the institution. Organizations must register annually, or as often as requested by the Student Life Office, and must inform the Student Life Office of any changes to the information supplied on the registration form as often as such information may change.

Action by the Student Government Association may grant an organization registered status. To be recognized, the group must be approved by the Student Government Association (see Article IV, Section 3 of the Student Government Association Constitution). A group must be registered and recognized in order to receive funding from the Student Government Association.

Social fraternities and sororities follow a similar but separate annual recognition process which is outlined in The Statement of Mutual Responsibility between Centre College and its Social Fraternities and Sororities and lease agreements between the College and each Greek Organization.