Greek organizations are only permitted to host events within the Greek Life Social Policy guidelines and only in locations approved by the Student Life Office. Under special circumstances, organizations may apply for an exception to the Student Life Office by contacting the Director of Greek Life. As indicated under Party in a Residence Hall in this handbook, students may not host or participate in parties in residence halls. This includes all rooms and public spaces. The president’s room and the rooms/hallways on the second floor of fraternity/sorority houses are considered residence hall rooms for this purpose.

The Greek community has established more specific risk management guidelines through the creation of a Greek Life Social Policy. A copy of the Greek Life Social Policy regulations can be obtained by contacting the Director of Greek Life, Interfraternity Council Vice President of Risk Management, or Panhellenic Council Executive Vice President.

All Greek organizations are expected to abide by the policies outlined in the Centre College Student Handbook and the Greek Life Social Policy unless a special exception is approved prior to the event by the Director of Greek Life. Failure to abide by these policies will result in disciplinary action.


Greek Organization Conduct & Appeals Processes:

Please refer to the Student Conduct Code procedures for an overview of the conduct process for Greek organizations. 

Appeals to decisions rendered by the Interfraternity Judicial Council (IFJC) or the Panhellenic Council should follow the processes outlined in the governing documents for the respective organization. 

A request for an appeal to a decision rendered by the Director of Greek Life should be submitted in writing and should include a written statement detailing the grounds for the appeal and should be submitted within 72 hours of notification of the outcome of case.  The appeal will be reviewed by an Appellate Board comprised of 2-3 Centre College Conduct Officials.  If an appeal is upheld by the Appellate Board the decisions rendered by the Appellate Board shall be considered final and binding upon all involved.  If an appeal is not upheld by the Appellate Board the decision rendered by the Director of Greek Life shall be considered final and binding upon all involved.